---
title: "Atata 1.4.0 is Released"
date: 2019-11-19
description: "Atata 1.4.0 is released with fluent waitings, warnings and other new useful features."
image: "atata-1.4.0-released.png"
image_alt: "Atata 1.4.0 is Released"
release_version: "1.4.0"
---

[Atata {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/{{page.release_version}})
is released with fluent waitings, warnings and other new useful features.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

## Changelog

### New Features

- {% include issue.md id=318 type='mj' %} Expectation verification functionality
- {% include issue.md id=319 type='mj' %} Waiting verification functionality
- {% include issue.md id=320 type='mn' %} Add `WaitingTriggerAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=321 type='mj' %} Add `WaitUntilEnabledAttribute` trigger
- {% include issue.md id=323 type='mj' %} Add `FindByScriptAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=324 type='mn' %} Add overloaded collection verification methods with `IEnumerable` argument
- {% include issue.md id=328 type='mn' %} Add `FindByDescendantAttributeAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=329 type='mn' %} Add `FindByDescendantIdAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=330 type='mn' %} Add `ValueGetFormatAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=331 type='mn' %} Add `ValueSetFormatAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=332 type='mn' %} Add `UseNUnitAssertionExceptionType` method to `AtataContextBuilder`
- {% include issue.md id=333 type='mj' %} Add `UseAllNUnitFeatures` method to `AtataContextBuilder`

## Waiting Verification

The new functionality is here to provide fluent waitings.

### Usage

The usage is similar to Atata's `Should` assertions.
Just use `WaitTo` instead of `Should`:

```cs
Component.WaitTo.Equal("...")
```

```cs
Component.WaitTo.BeVisible()
```

```cs
Component.WaitTo.BeEnabled()
```

If a condition is not met during the waiting time, which is taken from `AtataContext` by default (`AtataContext.Current.WaitingTimeout` and `AtataContext.Current.WaitingRetryInterval`), then `TimeoutException` is thrown.

## Expectation Verification

The new functionality is here to provide warnings.
This functionality is similar to the meaning of "soft assertions" term.

If the test you are writing is quite complex and you need to do several assertions
during the test flow without breaking the test with assertion exception
when the first assertion fails, the expectation functionality is for the help.

### Usage

The usage is similar to Atata's `Should` assertions.
Just use `ExpectTo` instead of `Should`:

```cs
Component.ExpectTo.Equal("...")
```

It doesn't throw an exception on failure, but write the warning assertion result to the log and adds it to `AtataContext.Current.PendingFailureAssertionResults` collection.
When on `TearDown` `AtataContext.Current?.CleanUp()` is invoked,
after the actual cleaning it will throw aggregate assertion exception with all found `ExpectTo` errors.
When using NUnit (`AtataContextBuilder.UseNUnitWarningReportStrategy()`),
it will record every expectation failure as NUnit warning, which is similar.
It is also absolutely valid to use expectations inside `AggregateAssert` sections.

### Configuration

The following methods are added to `AtataContextBuilder` for configuring expectation verification functionality:

```cs
public AtataContextBuilder UseWarningReportStrategy(IWarningReportStrategy strategy);

public AtataContextBuilder UseNUnitWarningReportStrategy();
```

When using NUnit, it is available to invoke `UseNUnitWarningReportStrategy()` during `AtataContext` configuration
in order to record warnings as NUnit's built-in [warnings](https://github.com/nunit/docs/wiki/Warnings).
For other testing frameworks (xUnit, MSTest) the native Atata expectation functionality will work well by default.

Note that not all test runners support/recognize NUnit warnings (for example Visual Studio 2019 test explorer does not for now, while 2015 and 2017 do).
{:.warning}

## New FindByScriptAttribute

`FindByScriptAttribute` - specifies that a control should be found by specific script. The script should return an element or collection of elements. The script can also return `null` for the case when the element is not found. The scope element is passed to the script as an argument and can be used in the script as `arguments[0]`.

### Usage

#### Find in the Scope of Parent

```cs
[FindByScript("return arguments[0].querySelector('span.someclass')")]
public Control<_> SomeControl { get; private set; }
```

#### Find in the Scope of Whole Page

```cs
[FindByScript("return document.querySelector('input[type=radio][value=OptionA]')")]
public RadioButton<_> OptionA { get; private set; }
```

## New UseAllNUnitFeatures Method

New method is added to `AtataContextBuilder`:

```cs
public AtataContextBuilder UseAllNUnitFeatures();
```

Enables all NUnit features for Atata. Executes the following methods:

- `UseNUnitTestName()`
- `UseNUnitAssertionExceptionType()`
- `UseNUnitAggregateAssertionStrategy()`
- `UseNUnitWarningReportStrategy()`
- `AddNUnitTestContextLogging()`
- `LogNUnitError()`
- `TakeScreenshotOnNUnitError()`

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata" version=page.release_version %}