---
title: "Atata 1.5.0 is Released"
date: 2020-04-23
description: "Atata 1.5.0 is released with new controls, enhanced FindAttribute functionality, log4net support and other new useful features."
image: "atata-1.5.0-released.png"
image_alt: "Atata 1.5.0 is Released"
release_version: "1.5.0"
---

[Atata {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/{{page.release_version}})
is released with new controls, enhanced FindAttribute functionality, log4net support and other new useful features.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

## Changelog

### New Features

- {% include issue.md id=346 type='mj' %} Add `LocalDateTimeInput<TOwner>` control
- {% include issue.md id=347 type='mj' %} Add `Svg<TOwner>` control and a set of its nested controls
- {% include issue.md id=348 type='mn' %} Add `WithGlobalCapability` method to driver builders
- {% include issue.md id=350 type='mn' %} Add `PageSource` property to `PageObject<TOwner>`
- {% include issue.md id=353 type='mj' %} Add log4net log consumer
- {% include issue.md id=355 type='mn' %} Add `LazyInitializableLogConsumer`
- {% include issue.md id=356 type='mn' %} Ability to reset/change `FindAttribute` for control
- {% include issue.md id=357 type='mj' %} Big improvement of UI components search mechanics
- {% include issue.md id=360 type='mj' %} `FindAttribute` layers
- {% include issue.md id=361 type='mn' %} Add .NET 4.6 as target framework
- {% include issue.md id=363 type='mn' %} Add `AtataContextModeOfCurrent` enum with `ThreadStatic`, `Static` and `AsyncLocal` values

### Changes and Enhancements

- {% include issue.md id=351 type='mn' %} Add extra `WithArguments` method to driver builders
- {% include issue.md id=358 type='mj' %} `FindAttribute` to inherit `MulticastAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=359 type='mj' %} Deprecate `ControlFindingAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=362 type='mn' %} Use `Atata.WebDriverExtras` package v1.3.0

## New LocalDateTimeInput Control

Added `LocalDateTimeInput<TOwner>` control (inherited from Input<DateTime?, TOwner>) for handling `<input type="datetime-local">`.

## New Svg Control

Added `Svg<TOwner>` control (inherited from `Control<TOwner>`) for handling of `<svg>` element.

Also, added a set of controls for main SVG elements:

- `SvgCircle<TOwner>` - for `<circle>`.
- `SvgEllipse<TOwner>` - for `<ellipse>`.
- `SvgLine<TOwner>` - for `<line>`.
- `SvgPath<TOwner>` - for `<path>`.
- `SvgPolygon<TOwner>` - for `<polygon>`.
- `SvgPolyline<TOwner>` - for `<polyline>`.
- `SvgRectangle<TOwner>` - for `<rectangle>`.
- `SvgText<TOwner>` - for `<text>`.

See {% include issue.md id=347 %} issue for more details.

## log4net Support

Implemented `Log4NetConsumer` class for native Atata support of [log4net](https://www.nuget.org/packages/log4net/) library for logging.
To use it, invoke one of `AddLog4NetLogging` overloaded methods of `AtataContextBuilder`.

## Improvement of UI Components Search Mechanics

In addition to component's `IWebElement Scope { get; }` property introduced new `ISearchContext ScopeContext { get; }` property.
The `ScopeContext` for all components returns the `Scope` property value by default.
An exception is `Page<TOwner>` for which `Driver` (`RemoteWebDriver` instance) is returned.
For custom components, it also can be changed by overriding `OnGetScopeContext` method.

This improves performance of controls finding and makes the finding mechanic more stable.

See {% include issue.md id=357 %} issue for more details.

## FindAttribute Various Improvements

There were several important improvements related to `FindAttribute`:

- {% include issue.md id=356 %} Ability to reset/change `FindAttribute` for control
- {% include issue.md id=358 %} `FindAttribute` to inherit `MulticastAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=359 %} Deprecate `ControlFindingAttribute`. Use `FindAttribute`s instead


## FindAttribute Layers

This is the new functionality that provides the ability to use many `FindAtributes` for a single component in a chain way.
This is called layers.
This feature was implemented because of the needed shadow DOM support.
But can be also nicely used for other needs, like complex layered element locators.

See {% include issue.md id=360 %} issue for more details and usage examples.

## New AsyncLocal Mode of AtataContext.Current

AsyncLocal mode was requested to use for applications that work using async/await.

Added `AtataContextModeOfCurrent` enum with `ThreadStatic`, `Static` and `AsyncLocal` values.
It defines the modes of `AtataContext.Current` property.

Added property to `AtataContext`:

```cs
public static AtataContextModeOfCurrent ModeOfCurrent { get; set; }
```

Existing `IsThreadStatic` property of `AtataContext` becomes obsolete as `ModeOfCurrent` is a new recommended option that provides additional `AsyncLocal` mode.

See {% include issue.md id=363 %} issue for more details.

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata" version=page.release_version %}