---
title: "Atata 1.12.0 is Released"
description: "Atata 1.12.0 is released with significant improvement of behavior attribute system and other useful features."
image: "atata-1.12.0-released.png"
release_version: "1.12.0"
---

[Atata {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/{{page.release_version}})
is released with significant improvement of behavior attribute system and other useful features.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

## Changelog

### New Features

- {% include issue.md id=511 type='mn' %} Add `Names` property to `DirectoryEnumerableProvider<TOwner>` and `FileEnumerableProvider<TOwner>`
- {% include issue.md id=513 type='mn' %} Add extra overload of verification `Contain` extension method
- {% include issue.md id=514 type='mj' %} Add verification extension methods for `DirectorySubject`: `Exist`, `ContainFile`, `ContainFiles`, `ContainDirectory` and `ContainDirectories`
- {% include issue.md id=515 type='mj' %} Add `Exist` verification extension method for `FileSubject`
- {% include issue.md id=516 type='mn' %} Add `DisposableSubject<T>`
- {% include issue.md id=518 type='mj' %} `Should.Throw` and `Should.Not.Throw` verification functionality
- {% include issue.md id=520 type='mn' %} Add `ExecuteBehavior` methods to `UIComponent`
- {% include issue.md id=524 type='mj' %} Focus behavior functionality
- {% include issue.md id=525 type='mj' %} Hover behavior functionality
- {% include issue.md id=526 type='mj' %} Drag and drop to offset behavior functionality
- {% include issue.md id=527 type='mj' %} New `SetsValueUsingClearAndTypeBehaviorsAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=529 type='mn' %} Add `AddValue(string value)` and `AddValueAndDispatchChangeEvent(string value)` methods to `UIComponentScriptExecutor<TOwner>`
- {% include issue.md id=530 type='mj' %} New `TypesTextUsingScriptAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=531 type='mj' %} New `TypesTextUsingSendKeysCharByCharAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=532 type='mj' %} New `TypesTextUsingFocusBehaviorAndSendKeysCharByCharAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=533 type='mj' %} Add `Satisfy(Expression<Predicate<TData>> predicateExpression)` verification extension method
- {% include issue.md id=534 type='mj' %} Add `Satisfy(Expression<Predicate<IEnumerable<TData>>> predicateExpression)` verification extension method
- {% include issue.md id=538 type='mj' %} Add `BePresent` verification method analogical to `Exist`
- {% include issue.md id=539 type='mn' %} Add `DriverInitializationStage` property to `AtataContext`

### Changes and Enhancements

- {% include issue.md id=512 type='mn' %} Change enumerable argument types of extension methods of `IDataVerificationProviderExtensions`
- {% include issue.md id=519 type='mn' %} Update `ClearValueAttribute` trigger to invoke `Clear` method of a component
- {% include issue.md id=521 type='mn' %} Update `SetValue` method of `CheckBox<TOwner>`
- {% include issue.md id=522 type='mn' %} Update base component classes to execute behaviors through `ExecuteBehavior` methods
- {% include issue.md id=523 type='mj' %} Rename behavior attributes
- {% include issue.md id=528 type='mj' %} Use `SetsValueUsingClearAndTypeBehaviorsAttribute` as a default value set behavior of `EditableTextField<T, TOwner>`
- {% include issue.md id=535 type='mn' %} Change `ControlDefinition` of `Input<T, TOwner>` to consider elements without type attribute
- {% include issue.md id=536 type='mn' %} Update `Exist` verification method to handle `NoSuchElementException` and `NotMissingElementException` as actual message
- {% include issue.md id=537 type='mn' %} Update `BeVisible` and `BeHidden` verification methods to work similarly to `Exist` method

### Fixes

- {% include issue.md id=510 type='fx' %} Exception occurs when referencing non-existent subdirectories of `DirectorySubject` through indexer

## Behaviors

One of the top changes of this release is a set of changes and additions to behavior attribute system.

### Behaviors Renaming

All existing behavior implementation attribute classes were "renamed" to sound in a more appropriate form.

Renaming was done the following way:
1. Create a copy of attribute class with renaming, e.g. `ClickUsingActionsAttribute` -> `ClicksUsingActionsAttribute`, `ValueSetUsingScriptAttribute` -> `SetsValueUsingScriptAttribute`.
1. The old attribute class should inherit a new one.
1. The old attribute is marked with `[Obsolete]` attribute.

So after update to v1.12.0 you might get warnings telling to use newer behavior attribute versions.
The warning message contains exact name of new attribute to replace an old one with.
So update should be pretty simple.
Nevertheless, you can safely continue to use the old attribute versions.

### Added Behavior Implementations

- **`SetsValueUsingClearAndTypeBehaviorsAttribute`** - the behavior for control value set by executing `ValueClearBehaviorAttribute` behavior first;
then, if value to set is not null or empty, executes `TextTypeBehaviorAttribute` behavior.
- **`TypesTextUsingScriptAttribute`** - the behavior for control text typing by executing
`HTMLElement.value += '{value}'; HTMLElement.dispatchEvent(new Event('change'));` JavaScript.
- **`TypesTextUsingSendKeysCharByCharAttribute`** - the behavior for control text typing by invoking
`IWebElement.SendKeys(string)` method for character by character with interval defined in `TypingIntervalInSeconds` property.
- **`TypesTextUsingFocusBehaviorAndSendKeysCharByCharAttribute`** - the behavior for control text typing by executing
`FocusBehaviorAttribute` behavior and then invoking `IWebElement.SendKeys(string)` method for character by character
with interval defined in `TypingIntervalInSeconds` property.

### Default Bahavior Change

`SetsValueUsingClearAndTypeBehaviorsAttribute` became the default value set behavior of EditableTextField<T, TOwner>.
Basically, this should not be a breaking change, as under the hood, by default the same actions are executed.

### New Behavior Types

There were 3 new types of behaviors added.
Each of them contains a single implementation behavior.
But now you are able to implement and use custom ones.

#### Focus

Changes the way how `Control<TOwner>.Focus()` method works.

`FocusBehaviorAttribute` - the base behavior class for control focus implementation.

`FocusesUsingScriptAttribute` - the behavior for control focusing by executing `HTMLElement.focus()` JavaScript.
The default behavior.

#### Hover

Changes the way how `Control<TOwner>.Hover()` method works.

`HoverBehaviorAttribute` the base behavior class for control hover implementation.

`HoversUsingActionsAttribute` - the behavior for control hovering using WebDriver's `Actions`.
Performs `Actions.MoveToElement(IWebElement)` action.
The default behavior.

#### Drag and Drop to Offset

Changes the way how `Control<TOwner>.DragAndDropToOffset()` method works.

`DragAndDropToOffsetBehaviorAttribute` - the base behavior class for implementation of control drag and drop to offset.

`DragsAndDropsToOffsetUsingActionsAttribute` - the behavior for control dragging and dropping to offset using WebDriver's `Actions`.
Performs `Actions.DragAndDropToOffset(IWebElement, int, int)` action.
The default behavior.

## New Universal Verification Method

Added an extra overload of `Satisfy` verification extension method with `Expression` parameter:

```cs
public static TOwner Satisfy<TData, TOwner>(
    this IDataVerificationProvider<TData, TOwner> verifier,
    Expression<Predicate<TData>> predicateExpression);
```

Now you can perform custom verifications like below:

```cs
SomeIntProperty.Should.Satisfy(x => x > 10 && x <= 20);
```

In case of assertion failure, the exception message will contain the text of expression.

## Should.Throw and Should.Not.Throw Verification Functionality

Added functionality to verify exception throwing on non-UI method invoking.

### Usage

#### Instance classes

```cs
_subject.Invoking(x => x.ContainsKey(null))
    .Should.Throw<ArgumentNullException>()
        .ValueOf(x => x.ParamName).Should.Equal("key")
        .ValueOf(x => x.Message).Should.Contain("key");
```

```cs
_subject.Invoking(x => x.ContainsKey("a"))
    .Should.NotThrow();
```

#### Static classes

```cs
Subject.Invoking(() => TestClass.GetEntity(null))
    .Should.Throw<ArgumentNullException>();
```

```cs
Subject.Invoking(() => TestClass.GetEntity(10))
    .Should.Not.Throw();
```

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata" version=page.release_version %}