---
title: "Atata 1.13.0 is Released"
description: "Atata 1.13.0 is released with new dynamic controls functionality, caching and other useful improvements."
image: "atata-1.13.0-released.png"
release_version: "1.13.0"
---

[Atata {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/{{page.release_version}})
is released with new dynamic controls functionality, caching and other useful improvements.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

## Changelog

### New Features

- {% include issue.md id=542 type='mn' %} New `TypesTextUsingFocusBehaviorAndSendKeysAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=543 type='mn' %} New `FocusAttribute` trigger
- {% include issue.md id=547 type='mj' %} Add `Find` and `FindAll` methods to `UIComponent<TOwner>`
- {% include issue.md id=550 type='mj' %} Add `Be` verification extension method
- {% include issue.md id=554 type='mj' %} Scope cache functionality
- {% include issue.md id=557 type='mj' %} Table column header texts cache functionality
- {% include issue.md id=559 type='mn' %} Clear cache functionality
- {% include issue.md id=560 type='mn' %} Add `GetOption` method to `Select<T, TOwner>`
- {% include issue.md id=561 type='mj' %} New `UsesCacheAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=562 type='mj' %} Value cache functionality
- {% include issue.md id=564 type='mj' %} Control blur functionality
- {% include issue.md id=565 type='mn' %} New `BlurAttribute` trigger
- {% include issue.md id=567 type='mn' %} Add `AtataContext Context` property to `UIComponent`

### Changes and Enhancements

- {% include issue.md id=548 type='mn' %} Verification trigger attributes to inherit from `WaitingTriggerAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=549 type='mn' %} Add two spaces before "Actual" text in verification exception message
- {% include issue.md id=552 type='mn' %} Shorten equality expected condition text in verification exception message
- {% include issue.md id=553 type='mn' %} Add ability to `MulticastAttribute` to target self and children components together
- {% include issue.md id=558 type='mn' %} Add ability to use offsets in `HoversUsingActionsAttribute`

### Fixes

- {% include issue.md id=545 type='fx' %} `Select<T, TOwner>` doesn't handle options with empty text or value for enum
- {% include issue.md id=556 type='fx' %} `PageObject<TOwner>.Init` method is invoked when `AtataContext.Current.PageObject` holds previous page object instance
- {% include issue.md id=566 type='fx' %} `Exists` property of `FileSubject` and `DirectorySubject` doesn't update dynamically

## Dynamic Controls

New methods are added to `UIComponent<TOwner>` and `IUIComponent<TOwner>`:

```cs
public TControl Find<TControl>(params Attribute[] attributes)
    where TControl : Control<TOwner>;

public TControl Find<TControl>(string name, params Attribute[] attributes)
    where TControl : Control<TOwner>;

public ControlList<TControl, TOwner> FindAll<TControl>(params Attribute[] attributes)
    where TControl : Control<TOwner>;

public ControlList<TControl, TOwner> FindAll<TControl>(string name, params Attribute[] attributes)
    where TControl : Control<TOwner>;
```

**`Find`** - creates a control of the specified `TControl` type,
optionally with name and additional attributes, that is a descendant of the current component.
The control's element will be found using either `FindAttribute` specified in `attributes` parameter,
or the default/applied `FindAttribute` associated with the `TControl` type.

**`FindAll`** - creates a control list of the specified `TControl` type,
optionally with name and additional attributes, that are descendants of the current component.
Use `ControlDefinitionAttribute` to specialize the control element definition, instead of `FindAttribute` that doesn't utilize here.

### Usage

New methods can be used directly in tests:

```cs
Go.To<SomePage>()
    .Find<H1<SomePage>>().Should.Equal("Some Title")
    .FindAll<TextInput<SomePage>>().Should.HaveCount(4);
```

But it is recommended to use them inside page object methods, because the basic usage purpose of the new methods is to allow a search of control by dynamic identifier/parameter.

```cs
public TextInput<_> FindTextInputByLabel(string label) =>
    Find<TextInput<_>>(new FindByLabelAttribute(label));
```

## Caching

There was added caching functionality of component scope element, value and table column headers.
This set of features is aimed to increase performance of subsequent component scope/value access requests,
especially for `ControlList` items and `Table` rows.

*Find out more details in caching issues:
[#554](https://github.com/atata-framework/atata/issues/554),
[#557](https://github.com/atata-framework/atata/issues/557),
[#559](https://github.com/atata-framework/atata/issues/559),
[#561](https://github.com/atata-framework/atata/issues/561) and
[#562](https://github.com/atata-framework/atata/issues/562).*

### Usage

#### Apply Scope Cache to Certain Control

```cs
[UsesScopeCache]
public TextInput<_> SomeInput { get; private set; }
```

#### Apply Scope and Value Cache to Certain Control

```cs
[UsesCache]
public H1<_> Header { get; private set; }
```

#### Apply Scope Cache to Page Object Children

```cs
[UsesScopeCache(TargetChildren = true)]
public class SomePage : Page<_>
{
    //...
}
```

#### Apply Cache to Table Row and Clear on "Remove" Button Click

```cs
[UsesCache(TargetSelfAndChildren = true)]
public class UserTableRow : TableRow<_>
{
    public Text<_> FirstName { get; private set; }

    public Text<_> LastName { get; private set; }

    [ClearCache(Of = ClearCacheTarget.Parent)]
    public Button<_> Remove { get; private set; }
}
```

### Caching Attributes

**`UsesScopeCacheAttribute`** - specifies whether the component scope cache mechanic should be used.
Caches a scope element of a component when it is requested at first time,
then returns the cached element instance on further scope requests.

**`UsesValueCacheAttribute`** - specifies whether the component value cache mechanic should be used.
Caches a value of a component when it is requested at first time,
then returns the cached value on further scope requests.

**`UsesColumnHeaderTextsCacheAttribute`** - specifies whether the column header texts cache of the `Table` control should be used.
Caches a value when it is requested at first time, then returns the cached value on further requests.

This caching is enabled by default in `Table<THeader, TRow, TOwner>` control.
Use `[UsesColumnHeaderTextsCache(false)]` to disable this caching.
{:.info}

**`UsesCacheAttribute`** - specifies whether the component caching mechanics should be used.
Use it to enable/disable all caching mechanics of component.

### Clear Cache

Cache can be cleared by using new `ClearCache()` method of `UIComponent<TOwner>` and `ControlList<TItem, TOwner>`.
Also new `ClearCacheAttribute` trigger can be used.

## New Triggers

**`FocusAttribute`** - indicates that the focusing on the control should be performed on the specified event.
By default occurs before set.

**`BlurAttribute`** - indicates that the control blurring (removing focus) should be performed on the specified event.
By default occurs after set.

**`ClearCacheAttribute`** - indicates that the component's cache should be cleared on the specified event.
By default occurs after click or set.

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata" version=page.release_version %}