---
title: "Atata.WebDriverSetup 2.4.0 is Released"
description: "Atata.WebDriverSetup 2.4.0 is released with a mutex-based thread synchronization option."
release_version: "2.4.0"
---

[Atata.WebDriverSetup {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata.WebDriverSetup/{{page.release_version}})
is released with Firefox version detection and new BrowserDetector class.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

## Changelog

### Added

- Automatic detection of the installed version of the Firefox browser and determination of the corresponding driver version.
- Automatic detection of the installed version of the Edge browser on macOS and Linux.
- Add `BrowserDetector` static class for a detection of browser installations.

### Changed

- Catch possible exceptions of `Registry.GetValue()` method call and return `null`.
- Catch possible exceptions of `FileVersionInfo.GetVersionInfo()` method call and return `null`.
- Update `AppVersionDetector.GetThroughOSXApplicationCli` method to handle possible `null` result of `GetThroughCli` method.
- Update `AppVersionDetector.GetThroughCli` method to trim result string.
- Upgrade Atata.Cli package to v2.2.0.

## BrowserDetector

`BrowserDetector` - provides a set of static methods for a detection of browser installations.
Browser detection is supported for Chrome, Firefox and Edge,
so as a browser name the following constants can be used:

- `BrowserNames.Chrome`
- `BrowserNames.Firefox`
- `BrowserNames.Edge`

### BrowserDetector Methods

- **`string GetInstalledBrowserVersion(string browserName)`**\
  Gets the installed browser version by the browser name.
- **`bool IsBrowserInstalled(string browserName)`**\
  Determines whether the browser with the specified name is installed.
- **`string GetFirstInstalledBrowserName(params string[] browserNames)`**\
 Gets the name of the first installed browser among the `browserNames`.
- **`string GetFirstInstalledBrowserName(IEnumerable<string> browserNames)`**\
 Gets the name of the first installed browser among the `browserNames`.

### BrowserDetector Usage

#### Get First Installed Browser Name

```cs
string browserName = BrowserDetector.GetFirstInstalledBrowserName(
    BrowserNames.Chrome,
    BrowserNames.Firefox,
    BrowserNames.Edge);
```

#### Is Browser Installed

```cs
bool isChromeInstalled = BrowserDetector.IsBrowserInstalled(BrowserNames.Chrome);
```

#### Get Installed Browser Version

```cs
string chromeVersion = BrowserDetector.GetInstalledBrowserVersion(BrowserNames.Chrome);
```

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata.WebDriverSetup" version=page.release_version %}