---
title: "Atata 2.9.0 is Released"
description: "Atata 2.9.0 is released with browser logs monitoring, JS popup boxes handling and other improvements."
image: "atata-2.9.0-released.png"
release_version: "2.9.0"
---

[Atata {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/{{page.release_version}})
is released with browser logs monitoring, JS popup boxes handling and other improvements.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

## Changelog

### New features

- {% include issue.md id=760 type='mn' %} Add `FindByRelativeElementContentAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=761 type='mn' %} Add `FindByPrecedingSiblingContentAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=762 type='mn' %} Add `DriverDeInitEvent`
- {% include issue.md id=763 type='mn' %} Add `RaiseError` and `RaiseWarning` methods to `AtataContext`
- {% include issue.md id=764 type='mj' %} Add browser logs monitoring functionality
- {% include issue.md id=766 type='mj' %} Add functionality for JavaScript popup boxes (alert, confirm, prompt)

### Changes and enhancements

- {% include issue.md id=759 type='mn' %} Add indentation and line breaks to complex object strings in expected and actual error messages
- {% include issue.md id=765 type='mj' %} Use Selenium.WebDriver package v4.11.0

### Fixes

- {% include issue.md id=758 type='fx' %} Incorrect name of `ControlList<TItem, TOwner>.Count` property in log

## Browser logs monitoring functionality

Currently this functionality is available only for Chrome and Edge.
{:.warning}

The feature brings a monitoring of browser logs, such as warnings and errors, which happen during a test execution.
Browser logs can be transferred to Atata logs and can raise warnings.

In order to enable browser logs monitoring, configure `AtataContext` in the following way:

```cs
AtataContext.GlobalConfiguration
    .BrowserLogs.UseLog()
    .BrowserLogs.UseMinLevelOfWarning(LogLevel.Warn);
```

`UseLog(bool enable = true)` - sets a value indicating whether the browser log should be transferred to Atata logging system. The default value is `false`.

`UseMinLevelOfWarning(LogLevel? minLevel)` - sets the minimum log level on which to raise warnings. The default value is `null`, meaning that warning is disabled. For example, setting the `LogLevel.Warn` value will mean to warn on browser log entries with `LogLevel.Warn` level and higher, which are `LogLevel.Error` and `LogLevel.Fatal`.

A log entry in Atata log can look like:

```
2023-08-26 20:41:49.3187 TRACE - Browser log: 20:41:49.2800 ERROR http://localhost:54321/browserlogs 17:10 Uncaught Error: Some thrown error.
```

A warning looks this way:

```
Unexpected browser log error on "<ordinary>" page:
http://localhost:54321/browserlogs 17:10 Uncaught Error: Some thrown error.
```

## Handling JavaScript popup boxes (alert, confirm, prompt)

Introduces the Atata fluent API for handling [JavaScript popup boxes](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_popup.asp).

Added 3 new methods to `PageObject<TOwner>`:

```cs
public AlertBox<TOwner> SwitchToAlertBox(TimeSpan? waitTimeout = null, TimeSpan? waitRetryInterval = null);

public ConfirmBox<TOwner> SwitchToConfirmBox(TimeSpan? waitTimeout = null, TimeSpan? waitRetryInterval = null);

public PromptBox<TOwner> SwitchToPromptBox(TimeSpan? waitTimeout = null, TimeSpan? waitRetryInterval = null);
```

The methods wait and switch to the open popup box. By default, if `waitTimeout` and `waitRetryInterval` arguments are not specified, the `AtataContext.WaitingTimeout` and `AtataContext.WaitingRetryInterval` values are used correspondingly. If popup box does not appear within the specified time, the `TimeoutException` is thrown.

### Alert

```cs
Go.To<SomePage>()
    .AlertButton.Click()
    .SwitchToAlertBox()
    .Accept();
```

### Confirm

```cs
Go.To<SomePage>()
    .ConfirmButton.Click()
    .SwitchToConfirmBox()
    .Accept(); // or Cancel()
```

### Prompt

```cs
Go.To<SomePage>()
    .PromptButton.Click()
    .SwitchToPromptBox()
    .Type("Some text")
    .Accept(); // or Cancel()
```

### Verify popup text

Use `Text` property of popup box classes to get or verify the text of popup.

```cs
page.SwitchToAlertBox()
    .Text.Should.Be("Some text");
```

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata" version=page.release_version %}
