---
title: "Atata 2.8.0 is Released"
description: "Atata 2.8.0 is released with full-page screenshots, new FindByTestIdAttribute and other improvements."
image: "atata-2.8.0-released.png"
release_version: "2.8.0"
---

[Atata {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/{{page.release_version}})
is released with full-page screenshots, new FindByTestIdAttribute and other improvements.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

**Due to a bug, it is recommended to use version 2.8.1, which has a fix.**
{:.warning}

## Changelog

### New features

- {% include issue.md id=749 type='mj' %} Add full-page screenshot functionality
- {% include issue.md id=751 type='mn' %} Add `FindByAriaLabelAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=752 type='mn' %} Add `FindByAriaLabelledByAttribute`
- {% include issue.md id=755 type='mj' %} Add `FindByTestIdAttribute`

### Changes and enhancements

- {% include issue.md id=748 type='mj' %} Use Selenium.WebDriver package v4.10.0
- {% include issue.md id=750 type='mn' %} Correct typos in member names
- {% include issue.md id=753 type='mn' %} Inherit `Link<TOwner>` from `Text<TOwner>`
- {% include issue.md id=754 type='mn' %} Rename `ViewPort` members to `Viewport`
- {% include issue.md id=756 type='mj' %} Retry UI actions on `StaleElementReferenceException`

## Full-page screenshot functionality

Adds a possibility to take full-page screenshots.
The functionality is not enabled by default.
Also, currently it works only for Chrome, Edge and Firefox, so enable it carefully.

### Enable full-page screenshots by default

Full-page screenshots can be enabled to be taken by default instead of viewport screenshots.

#### Configuration

A property is added to `AtataContextBuilder`:

```cs
public ScreenshotsAtataContextBuilder Screenshots { get; }
```

`ScreenshotsAtataContextBuilder` contains the following methods:

```cs
// Used by default.
public ScreenshotsAtataContextBuilder UseWebDriverViewportStrategy();

// Works only for Firefox.
public ScreenshotsAtataContextBuilder UseWebDriverFullPageStrategy();

// Works only for Chrome and Edge.
public ScreenshotsAtataContextBuilder UseCdpFullPageStrategy();

// *** Recommended to use for full-page screenshots, regardless of browser/driver.
public ScreenshotsAtataContextBuilder UseFullPageOrViewportStrategy();

// To use custom strategy.
public ScreenshotsAtataContextBuilder UseStrategy(IScreenshotStrategy strategy);
```

##### Usage

```cs
AtataContext.GlobalConfiguration
    .Screenshots.UseFullPageOrViewportStrategy();
```

### Explicitly take full-page screenshots

It is also possible to take full-page screenshots only at certain points.
It is allowed to explicitly specify `ScreenshotKind` enum value depending whether you need a viewport or a full-page screenshot.

`ScreenshotKind` enum provides 3 values: `Default`, `Viewport` and `FullPage`.

#### Examples

```cs
AtataContext.Current.TakeScreenshot(ScreenshotKind.FullPage);
```

```cs
Go.To<SomePage>()
    .Report.Screenshot(ScreenshotKind.FullPage);
```

```cs
[TakeScreenshot(ScreenshotKind.FullPage, TriggerEvents.Init)]
```

```cs
AtataContext.GlobalConfiguration
    .TakeScreenshotOnNUnitError(ScreenshotKind.FullPage);
```

## New `FindByTestIdAttribute`

`FindByTestIdAttribute` - specifies that a control should be found by the DOM test identifier attribute, `data-testid` by default. Finds the control that has the test identifier attribute matching the specified term(s). Uses `TermCase.Kebab` as the default term case.

### Usage

```cs
[FindByTestId] // Will look for a text input with '[data-testid="first-name"]'
public TextInput<_> FirstName { get; private set; }

[FindByTestId("last-name")]
public TextInput<_> LastName { get; private set; }
```

### Configuration

The methods added to `AtataContextBuilder` for test identifier configuration:

```cs
public AtataContextBuilder UseDomTestIdAttributeName(string name);

public AtataContextBuilder UseDomTestIdAttributeDefaultCase(TermCase defaultCase);
```

#### Example

```cs
AtataContext.GlobalConfiguration
    .UseDomTestIdAttributeName("data-autoid")
    .UseDomTestIdAttributeDefaultCase(TermCase.PascalKebab);
```

## New attributes for ARIA

- `FindByAriaLabelAttribute` - specifies that a control should be found by the `aria-label` attribute.
  Finds the control that has the `aria-label` attribute matching the specified term(s).
  Uses `TermCase.Sentence` as the default term case.
- `FindByAriaLabelledByAttribute` - specifies that a control should be found by the `aria-labelledby` attribute.
  Finds the control that has the `aria-labelledby` attribute matching the specified term(s).
  Uses `TermCase.Kebab` as the default term case.

## Retry UI actions on `StaleElementReferenceException`

Before, rarely when DOM is dynamically updated `StaleElementReferenceException` can occur during UI actions.
`StaleElementReferenceException` was handled for components element finding, waiting and assertion, but not for actions like click, type, etc.
Now all UI actions are also covered with retries to produce more reliable interactions.

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata" version="2.8.1" %}