---
title: "Atata 2.13.0 is Released"
description: "Atata 2.13.0 is released with reliability improvements and few other features."
image: "atata-2.13.0-released.png"
release_version: "2.13.0"
---

[Atata {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/{{page.release_version}})
is released with reliability improvements and few other features.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

## Changelog

### New features

- {% include issue.md id=794 type='mj' %} Add driver creation retry functionality
- {% include issue.md id=795 type='mn' %} Add `SetAsCurrent` method to `AtataContext`
- {% include issue.md id=796 type='mj' %} Add driver initial health check functionality
- {% include issue.md id=797 type='mj' %} Replace log consumer configuration method `WithoutSectionFinish()` with `WithSectionEnd(LogSectionEndOption logSectionEnd)`
- {% include issue.md id=798 type='mn' %} Add `OnRefreshed` navigation method

## Driver creation retry functionality

The functionality of driver creation retries was added.
From now on, when driver creation fails with an exception, 2 more attempts are taken to retry driver creation.
It can help reduce the number of test setup failures, as rarely driver constructors can throw exception.

The following configuration method was added to the base `DriverAtataContextBuilder<TBuilder>` class:

```cs
public TBuilder WithCreateRetries(int createRetries);
```

The method specifies the count of possible driver creation retries in case exceptions occur during creation.
The default value is `2`. Set `0` to omit retries.

### Usage

```cs
AtataContext.GlobalConfiguration
    .UseChrome()
        .WithCreateRetries(3)
    .Build();
```

## Driver initial health check functionality

This feature adds an initial check of driver state to ensure that it is working.
The primary goal of this feature is to handle "no such execution context" `WebDriverException`
that recently happens with Chrome, rarely, but anyway it happens.
So after driver is created we can request some driver property to ensure it doesn't throw exception.
This functionality works together with the driver creation retry functionality,
which means that in case of health check failure the driver can be recreated and new one checked again.

**By default this functionality is disabled.** It can be enabled for particular driver(s).

### Configuration methods

2 methods were added to the base `DriverAtataContextBuilder<TBuilder>` class:

```cs
public TBuilder WithInitialHealthCheck(bool enable = true);

public TBuilder WithInitialHealthCheckFunction(Func<IWebDriver, bool> function);
```

**`WithInitialHealthCheck`** - enables or disables an initial health check.
By default it is disabled.

**`WithInitialHealthCheckFunction`** - sets the initial health check function.
The default function requests `IWebDriver.Url`.

### Usage

```cs
AtataContext.GlobalConfiguration
    .UseChrome()
        .WithInitialHealthCheck()
    .Build();
```

## Replaced log consumer configuration method `WithoutSectionFinish()` with `WithSectionEnd(LogSectionEndOption)`

Before, there were 2 options to log section end: include or exclude.
The third option is added now: "Include log section end only for block sections".
Currently "block" log sections are: `StepLogSection`, `SetupLogSection` and `AggregateAssertionLogSection`.
The new option can be useful in reporters logging, like ExtentReports, to simplify logs.

`WithoutSectionFinish()` method became obsolete and new `WithSectionEnd(LogSectionEndOption logSectionEnd)`
was added with the following options:

```cs
public enum LogSectionEndOption
{
    Include,
    IncludeForBlocks,
    Exclude
}
```

## New `OnRefreshed` navigation method

The new method was added to `Go` and `AtataNavigator` classes:

```cs
public T OnRefreshed<T>()
    where T : PageObject<T>;
```

Continues with the specified page object type with rage refresh. Firstly, checks whether the current `AtataContext.PageObject` is `T`, if it is, returns it; otherwise, creates a new instance of `T` without navigation. Then a page is refreshed. The method is useful in case when you reuse a single test suite driver by tests and want to refresh a page on start of each test to ensure that the page is in clean start state.

### Usage

```cs
Go.OnRefreshed<SomePage>();
```

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata" version=page.release_version %}
