---
title: "Atata 2.14.0 is Released"
description: "Atata 2.14.0 is released with a couple of enhancements and fixes."
image: "atata-2.14.0-released.png"
release_version: "2.14.0"
---

[Atata {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/{{page.release_version}})
is released with a couple of enhancements and fixes.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

## Changelog

### Breaking changes

- {% include issue.md id=802 type='br' %} Remove `FileScreenshotConsumerBase.ImageFormat` property

### New features

- {% include issue.md id=805 type='mn' %} Add `UseSpecFlowNUnitFeatures` method to `AtataContextBuilder`

### Changes and enhancements

- {% include issue.md id=801 type='mj' %} Rework verification error handling and logging
- {% include issue.md id=803 type='mj' %} Use Selenium.WebDriver package v4.16.2
- {% include issue.md id=804 type='mn' %} Update `Stringifier` to return char value as string wrapped with quotes
- {% include issue.md id=806 type='mn' %} Dispose driver safely in `AtataContext`

### Fixes

- {% include issue.md id=799 type='fx' %} Possible bug for `[TermAttribute]` with multiple params values
- {% include issue.md id=800 type='fx' %} Warnings can be not included in error message for NUnit

## Reworked verification error handling and logging

### Error handling

Verification error handling and logging was reviewed and reworked. There was a need to distinguish default Atata native assertion failure handling and the handling for NUnit. Similar to how it is done for warnings.

The new `IAssertionFailureReportStrategy` appeared with 2 implementations: default `AtataAssertionFailureReportStrategy` and `NUnitAssertionFailureReportStrategy`.

New methods added to `AtataContextBuilder`:

```cs
AtataContextBuilder UseAssertionFailureReportStrategy(IAssertionFailureReportStrategy strategy);

AtataContextBuilder UseNUnitAssertionFailureReportStrategy();
```

`UseNUnitAssertionFailureReportStrategy` is called by `UseAllNUnitFeatures` method, so mostly there is no need for extra configuration.

### Logging

Until now, assertion error is logged exactly inside "Assert" log section, before that it was logged in "Deinitialization" log section. Also all exceptions occurred in "Step", "Setup" and "Aggregate assert" sections are now logged inside these sections. Aggregate assertion exception is now not logged as an error in "Deinitialization" section to avoid duplication of failures in log, because they are logged during the test execution one by one. In all other cases unhandled exceptions will continue to be written to log in "Deinitialization" log section.

### Other

A blank line added between multiple errors in aggregate assertion exception message for NUnit, as below:

```
Multiple failures or warnings in test:
  1) Unexpected sut
Expected: should contain "x"
  Actual: "abc"

  2) Unexpected sut
Expected: should contain "y"
  Actual: "abc"

  3) Wrong sut
Expected: should contain "z"
  Actual: "abc"
```

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata" version=page.release_version %}
