---
title: "Atata 3.12.0 is Released"
description: "Atata 3.12.0 is released with a DOM mutation waiting functionality and an upgrade of Selenium.WebDriver to v4.45.0."
image: "atata-3.12.0-released.png"
release_version: "3.12.0"
---

[Atata {{page.release_version}}](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/{{page.release_version}})
is released with a DOM mutation waiting functionality and an upgrade of Selenium.WebDriver to v4.45.0.
{:.lead}

<!--more-->

## Changelog

### Added

- Add DOM mutation waiting functionality.

### Changed

- Upgrade Selenium.WebDriver package reference to v4.45.0.
- Upgrade Atata.WebDriverExtras package reference to v3.8.0.

## DOM mutation waiting

Now you can wait for DOM mutation start and end.
It is possible to do for a whole page or particular component.
For that you can use either script methods or trigger attributes.

### DOM mutation script execution methods

The new methods added to `UIComponentScriptExecutor<TOwner>`:

- **`WaitForDomMutation()`**.
  Waits for the first DOM mutation event inside the current component.
- **`WaitForDomImmutableState()`**.
  Waits for the current component to have an immutable/stable DOM.
  There should not be any DOM mutation events inside the component for the specified time span.
  The immutable state time is 100 milliseconds by default.
- **`WaitForDomImmutableState(TimeSpan immutableStateTime)`**.
  Waits for the current component to have an immutable/stable DOM.
  There should not be any DOM mutation events inside the component for the specified time span.

#### Usage

```cs
component.Script.WaitForDomMutation();
```

```cs
component.Script.WaitForDomImmutableState();
```

### DOM mutation trigger attributes

- **`WaitForDomMutationEndAttribute`**.
  Indicates that a waiting should be performed for the self or targeted component DOM mutation to end.
  By default if `ControlName` is not specified, the waiting will be performed for the current component.
- **`WaitForDomMutationStartAndEndAttribute`**.
  Indicates that a waiting should be performed for the self or targeted component DOM mutation to start and end.
  By default if `ControlName` is not specified, the waiting will be performed for the current component.
- **`WaitForPageObjectDomMutationEndAttribute`**.
  Indicates that the waiting should be performed for the page object DOM mutation to end.
- **`WaitForPageObjectDomMutationStartAndEndAttribute`**.
  Indicates that the waiting should be performed for the page object DOM mutation to start and end.

#### Usage

```cs
[WaitForPageObjectDomMutationEnd(TriggerEvents.Init)]
public class SomePage : Page<_>
{
}
```

```cs
[WaitForDomMutationEnd(TriggerEvents.Init)]
public Control<_> SomeControl { get; private set; }
```

```cs
[WaitForDomMutationStartAndEnd(TriggerEvents.AfterClick, ControlName = nameof(AnotherControl))]
public Button<_> SomeButton { get; private set; }

public Control<_> AnotherControl { get; private set; }
```

## WebDriver upgrade

The release contains an upgrade of Selenium.WebDriver package reference from v4.44.0 to v4.45.0.
Take a look at [Selenium.WebDriver CHANGELOG](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/blob/trunk/dotnet/CHANGELOG)
to find out what was changed there.

{% include download-package-link.html name="Atata" version=page.release_version %}
