---
title: "Atata 0.13.0 Released"
date: 2017-06-23 16:16:01 +0300
description: "Atata 0.13.0 is released. Check the changelog and major features."
---

[Atata 0.13.0](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Atata/0.13.0) is released. Check the changelog and major features.
{:.lead}

## Changelog

### New

* {% include issue.md id=23 type='mn' %} Add `TraceLogAttribute`
* {% include issue.md id=26 type='mn' %} Add `SetRandom` extension method for ``EditableField`2`` with nullable data type
* {% include issue.md id=27 type='mn' %} Add support of `RandomizeIncludeAttribute` to string and number ``EditableField`2`` controls
* {% include issue.md id=29 type='mj' %} `OuterXPath` functionality
* {% include issue.md id=30 type='mn' %} Add `Metadata` to ``ControlList`2``
* {% include issue.md id=34 type='mn' %} Add `ComponentSize` property to ``UIComponent`1``
* {% include issue.md id=35 type='mn' %} Add `ComponentLocation` property to ``UIComponent`1``
* {% include issue.md id=37 type='mj' %} Add ``HierarchicalControl`2`` and ``HierarchicalItem`2`` controls
* {% include issue.md id=40 type='mj' %} Add `MulticastAttribute`
* {% include issue.md id=43 type='mj' %} Add `Resolve` method to ``UIComponentChildrenList`1``
* {% include issue.md id=44 type='mj' %} Add controls for hierarchical lists
* {% include issue.md id=45 type='mn' %} Add attribute properties to ``UIComponentAttributeProvider`1``
* {% include issue.md id=46 type='mj' %} Add `ContentSourceAttribute`
* {% include issue.md id=48 type='mn' %} Bool randomization
* {% include issue.md id=49 type='mn' %} Assertion exception type configuration
* {% include issue.md id=51 type='mj' %} Add `DragAndDropTo` methods to ``Control`1``
* {% include issue.md id=52 type='mj' %} Behaviors for drag and drop
* {% include issue.md id=54 type='mn' %} Add `Press` method to ``PageObject`1``

### Changes

* {% include issue.md id=24 type='mn' %} Make `UIComponent.Scope` property public
* {% include issue.md id=28 type='mn' %} Update `ILogManager` error logging methods
* {% include issue.md id=32 type='mn' %} Set `"./"` `OuterXPath` to items of ``UnorderedList`2`` and ``OrderedList`2``
* {% include issue.md id=36 type='mn' %} Add `IsVisible` and `Triggers` properties to ``IUIComponent`1``
* {% include issue.md id=41 type='mn' %} Inherit `FindSettingsAttribute` from `MulticastAttribute`
* {% include issue.md id=47 type='mn' %} Add indexers to ``ItemsControl`2``
* {% include issue.md id=50 type='br' %} Change default search of controls
* {% include issue.md id=53 type='mn' %} Change log messages for `AtataContext` setup
* {% include issue.md id=55 type='br' %} Change `TermCase.Title` and add `TermCase.Capitalized`

### Fixes
* {% include issue.md id=31 type='fx' %} Component attributes of inherited control type does not apply to sub-components of base type
* {% include issue.md id=33 type='fx' %} `FindByCssStrategy` throws exception in safely mode
* {% include issue.md id=42 type='fx' %} `ControlType` and `ParentComponentType` properties of `ControlFindingAttribute` doesn't handle non-generic types

## Drag and Drop

Added the following methods to `Control<TOwner>`:

```cs
public TOwner DragAndDropTo(Func<TOwner, Control<TOwner>> targetSelector);

public TOwner DragAndDropTo(Control<TOwner> target);

public TOwner DragAndDropToOffset(int offsetX, int offsetY);
```

### Usage

#### Page Object

```cs
namespace Atata.Tests
{
    using _ = DragAndDropPage;

    [Url("DragAndDrop.html")]
    public class DragAndDropPage : Page<_>
    {
        [FindById]
        public ItemsControl<DragItem, _> DropContainer { get; private set; }

        [FindById]
        public ItemsControl<DragItem, _> DragItems { get; private set; }

        [ControlDefinition("span", ContainingClass = "drag-item")]
        public class DragItem : Control<_>
        {
        }
    }
}
```

#### Test

```cs
[Test]
public void Control_DragAndDrop()
{
    Go.To<DragAndDropPage>().
        DropContainer.Items.Should.BeEmpty().
        DragItems.Items.Should.HaveCount(2).
        DragItems[x => x.Content == "Drag item 1"].DragAndDropTo(x => x.DropContainer).
        DragItems[0].DragAndDropTo(x => x.DropContainer).
        DropContainer.Items.Should.HaveCount(2).
        DragItems.Items.Should.BeEmpty().
        DropContainer[1].Content.Should.Equal("Drag item 2");
}
```

### Behaviors

See {% include issue.md id=52 %} **Behaviors for drag and drop** for customizing behavior of drag and drop. For example, in current Chrome and PhantomJS versions the default behavior can fail. So you can use `DragAndDropUsingDomEventsAttribute` to bypass that.

## OuterXPath

Implemented functionality to set extra pre-XPath for control search. By default ".//" XPath is used as `OuterXPath`.

### Examples

To find a control as a direct child of parent:

```cs
[FindSettings(OuterXPath = "./")]
```

Or:

```cs
[FindFirst(OuterXPath = "./")]
```

To find a first following sibling element:

```cs
[FindFirst(OuterXPath = "following-sibling::")]
```

To find element by class that is a direct child of some container:

```cs
[FindByClass("some-class", OuterXPath = ".//div[@id='some-container']/")]
```

## ContentSourceAttribute

`ContentSourceAttribute` - specifies the content source of a component. It is used in `UIComponent<TOwner>` for `Content` property; and in `Content<T, TOwner>` control for value. `ContentSourceAttribute` is inherited from `MulticastAttribute`.

Can use one of the following `ContentSource` enum values:

- `Text` - uses Text property of component scope `IWebElement` element.
- `TextContent` - uses 'textContent' attribute of component scope `IWebElement` element.
- `InnerHtml` - uses 'innerHTML' attribute of component scope `IWebElement` element.
- `Value` - uses 'value' attribute of component scope `IWebElement` element.

Also can accept a name of attribute from which the value should be taken.

### Examples

To get content of a hidden element:

```cs
[FindById("some-id", Visibility = Visibility.Any)]
[ContentSource(ContentSource.TextContent)]
public Text<_> HiddenDivUsingTextContent { get; private set; }
```

To get attribute value of element:

```cs
[FindById]
[ContentSource("data-id")]
public Content<int, _> ElementHavingDataId { get; private set; }
```

## Lazy Initialization of Controls

Added method to `UIComponentChildrenList<TOwner>`:

```cs
public TControl Resolve<TControl>(string propertyName, Func<IEnumerable<Attribute>> additionalAttributesFactory = null);
```

It can be used for lazy initialization of controls:

```cs
public Control<_> SomeControl => Controls.Resolve<Control<_>>(nameof(SomeControl));
```